because sometimes you're gonna win
sometimes you lose sometimes you're
gonna save that person sometimes you're
not you know and that's something that I
think all of us need to understand is I
think we're so controlled by what's the
result
win or lose what's a result you lost and
if winning is the only way that you ed
afire value and your worth you're gonna
live a really miserable life because we
all lose we all fail it's part of the
learning process everyone welcome to
hell theory
today's guest is da Rourke he's a
celebrity trainer known for his role in
turning chris hemsworth into the mighty
thor and josh brolin into the world
destroying fan o's he's also the
strength and conditioning coach for
elite athletes military warriors and
first responders as well as some of the
most explosive and powerful MMA fighters
in the game he is the master of
transformation both body and mind he's
the principal trainer for Chris
Hemsworth's Center training system and
he helped Chris cyborg develop so much
strength that people say getting punched
by her is like being hit by a gorilla
and dude talk to me about adaptation
that's one of the things researching you
I found the most interesting your belief
in the human ability to adapt which is
my absolute obsession and I want to know
how do we trigger it how do we get into
adaptation response mode how is that
informed the style of training that you
do right I mean I think for me
functional everyone talks about
functional training all the time and I
think functional training specifically
is how efficiently our body can adapt to
situations right life is just is not
static it's always consistently moving
so for me a lot of my training my
training curriculum came from sequencing
in the body's ability to adapt does he
mean by sequencing sequencing the best
way to explain it is if I told you say
the alphabet A to Z you could say it but
if I don't say it backwards or every
third letter B fifth letter it's
figuring out the coding from a certain
pattern that we do and the same thing is
with movement patterns whether I tell
you to move and crawl to a job to skip
to hop your body's consistently trying
to learn how to move in those movement
patterns right and I think for me even
when I first started working with first
responders we'd see first responders
that are extremely fit in shape and
ready ready for their job but they'd go
out there in a fire and they guess most
situations that they weren't used to our
custom to or prepared for and they
couldn't perform right and that's kind
of less in real life even though you're
physically strong in the gym you'd go
out you drop your keys you pull your
back or you're doing something you just
not where you want to be and I always
say that strength conditioning is kind
of the third chapter and then you're the
first two or sensory process
and motor planning and sensory
processing really is your body's ability
to adapt and taking and process
information that we see through our
senses right and we have trained now
it's something I think it's just about
adapting for example if you see an
athlete that has a calm court advantage
home-field advantage you're in a
situation where you're comfortable you
know what to expect right your body has
practice there you know what the the you
know the auditory processing is gonna be
you know how loud it's gonna be you know
what its gonna look like you know what's
gonna feel like it's your body feels
comfortable so your adrenal system is
much more managed your nervous system
yet organized much more efficiently
right but unfortunately you can't
anticipate everything right and really
functional strength is your ability to
adapt a situation so you can utilize all
your strength and conditioning that you
worked so hard to train for fighters are
the same way you go into a specific
fight and you're prepared for one thing
and you get something else and that's
where sometimes there's problems that
occur right because your body can't
perform at the level that you had
practice on you're ready for so I think
with processing it for me it's always
about changing the sequencing of
movement patterns and I do that my
foundational training modules it doesn't
utilize any weight right so it's really
just focused on can your body move so
your primary training is all just like
it's just a body weight movement I mean
it's it's Purpose Driven movement I mean
it's not like a lot of people do animal
flow and these type of things that it's
great I think for mobility is fantastic
I try to get a little more specific on
hinge work and understanding how the you
know the system is gonna work and adapt
to certain sequences that we move
through can we move we change the tempo
can we change the body plan positioning
but there's always specificity in
training how I would train a firefighter
is different than how I train a special
ops team guy I understand the component
of focusing on strength powerful the
explosive strength and conditioning
outside of but I think there's nothing
wrong with it I think it's great to have
those components in there my curriculums
just enhanced that right to try to
Oregon help or help train you to
organize your nervous system so that
everything that you're working so hard
to develop on one side we can apply then
over to other aspects of your life and I
think you know you're talking about
people that aren't even at an elite
level people that are just starting a
program it's very intimidating to start
a strength conditioning program because
you don't know where to start
and I always tell people all the time
I'm I'm a believer in if you cannot move
with
load you have no reason adding loads to
the right
you know if someone can't squat with
weight then don't get under a bar with
weight on there and I think
understanding the techniques and the
fundamentals are very very important so
let's go through some of that so if
somebody is watching this now they've
long thought about they want to get into
shape or whatever but they are
intimidated they don't know where to
start right where would you have them
sorry you were talking about how even
like if you have a tiny-ass apartment
and you don't have space you can't
afford a gym like exactly exactly you're
exactly right oh I mean I think for me
it's always about lowering the barrier
of entry right some people are like I'd
want to go to gym but can't afford a gym
right it's a financial component or I
like to train at home there's not enough
space but if you have a backyard you can
use if you just have your living room we
can use we do a little spatial
restriction you stay in one spot it's
just changing the movement patters of
what they're having to do I like it
because the modifications that we can
apply to someone who's a beginner or a
novice versus someone who's an
intermediate to advanced it's something
we could apply immediately right and so
I like to that opportunities to work
with people that are just starting out
they they're comfortable in their own
house they get them moving again start
working on building out some core
strength or hip mobility again you know
a lot of people have seen me do a lot of
crawling work if you've seen stuff I've
done with Chris and a lot of my first
responders and crawling just and
specifically is is a foundation of
movement pattern right I think people
look at crawling they go is it just
crawling crawling we all crawl I can
kind of figure out how to crawl yeah but
it's just like saying can you figure out
how to walk how to run there's a
specific way there's specific variations
you deal with it risk for your foot
placement your body plane positioning
how low your knees are what's engaging
there's so many variations to a crawl
right there's so many variations to a
squat all these different movements that
we do and then can we move from one in
transition from one movement to another
smooth into smooth patterns so in
bodybuilding people will tell you that
like the if you're only gonna do three
things new squat deadlift bench press
right so what is your basic it doesn't
have to be three obviously but what are
the like just basics is it air squats is
it push-ups what are our sort of general
things that people I think I mean
there's chronic I would say crawling you
get it's just stay holding it goes from
holding
Krall an isometric positioning just
holding that it's very challenging for a
lot of people from the soviet quad
strength your hip mobility your core
strength your shoulder stability just an
amazing position just for overall
functional strength so a lot of people
that can't do anything either just hold
the position off their knees and then
drop right back down to the knees and
that's how we can deconstruct that lumen
we could do like a squat position so if
you're doing a squat which is great
you know like in bodybuilding in power
movements squat is always one of the
primary found you know foundational
movements but we do without weight if
you can't get down you could brace
yourself with your knee if your hinge
you can't get low because of your hips
your knee there's waste abrasive by
holding your body weight and reducing
the body weight on it but getting used
to getting down to just getting your
body moving is the key I think we over
complicate our training by saying well
what piece of equipment do we need you
know what's gonna smash us I don't
really believe in smashing people you
know I mean that whole bootcamp I just
smash people I get it I get it we feel
after accomplished after you've seen
your Instagram though who me and like I
will say that you seem to be smashing
yourself a lot of times you know for me
I do a lot of long cycle work like for
example when I did a 5k bear-crawl right
I always am intrigued by when you're
crawling for example to see what areas
of your body will start to break down
because if you're doing like snatches
there's a high probability that you're
gonna pull something or in yourself
because now you're moving weight through
a load you're gonna be fatiguing your
technique comes off right on a
bodyweight movement you can control your
body you can slow down you can modify
the movement etc but can you continue to
go through so number one from a
physiological perspective I kind of
wanted to see how you know what areas my
body or my weakness I might as my
shoulders my even my ankles my wrist
what's happening and secondly is that
mental component because I'm a firm
believer that any type of exercise
program you need to be able to be
mentally strong in order to sustain it
right because I don't believe in
motivation as much as I believe that you
have to apply discipline right and
consistency of that discipline over time
you build that you can't but you have to
find purpose I think your GPS system
your core base is your purpose if you
don't have a purpose for doing something
it's very hard to sustain that right
it's very hard to do when you don't want
to do because you're like why the hell
am I doing this
no friggin sense right and so I'm a firm
believer my family is my purpose so I do
things for that and it's amazing how
much you can overcome you know that
discipline when it's a standpoint of
like you don't want to do something
you're like I got to stay consistent
with what was your thing though before
your family so I'm guessing that you
were yoked before you have kids I don't
think that's sir I was ever yoked
but I was just always even I remember
when I was young I was just fascinated
with the ability of the mind to overcome
things I used to see a member you know
the the Eastern Bloc at the time Russian
you how much why they were so much
stronger than the u.s. are they
physically just born stronger I don't
think so I mean what is it about their
mental strength that there isn't I think
getting back to the long side goes can
you sustain a set thing for a long
period of time because you go to a dark
place when you're crawling for a set for
your time you're lunging for a mile
right whoa right you're lunging for a
mile you everyone can lunge or if you
know people have knee issues maybe not
but if for me less for my it hurts but
can you get there because there's a part
where you're like this is stupid
right you're like what why am i doing
this this is absolutely stupid but
didn't you start to see pushing and that
carry over cross over to life is what I
find fascinating right because that's
life
we go through stuff and we do it and you
just get to point where like I don't
want to do it do you remember the
process of building your mind you know
it's interesting there's a lot of
failures for me or things that you go
through where you break mentally it's
hard because I think when you give your
best effort what you feel your best
effort is and you don't succeed or
you're not at the level of proficiency
that you would hope or strive to be at
it's discouraging but that's so much of
life we go through things that sometimes
are are challenging in this adversity
that we don't anticipate right agreed
what I'm trying to get to is so I
remember building my mind and so knowing
how you've helped people transform
knowing your beliefs about adaptation
it's like that
seems to be something that you're
incredibly good at and I was wondering
how much of that is through your own
journey of the transform of your body
like do you remember
what you had to you know that's always
been mentioned that's a great question
as I think you know when I was a kid I
mean I gots it was severely bullied I
got I remember getting bullied when I
was a young kid and getting bullied I
remember you know you fear you feel
scared and you feel helpless and my dad
was always into fitness my dad was a
LAPD and so my whole life was surrounded
by exercise right but he'd always have
us no way to have us do push-ups and
pull-ups and sit-ups but for me it was
just kind of I kind of delved into that
is really just really kind of getting
into that exercise component for me
anyways because it was kind of my time I
controlled it I took ownership and
equity of that time it was something I
could control so I started to realize I
mean there's some kids that are always
just gonna be stronger than me there's
gonna be some kids that are gonna be
faster or but one thing I could control
I realized was my ethic my work ethic
and I realized that very young is that
you can't always dictate the result
right the results will come because
there's a lot of factors that come and
that's applicable to all aspects of life
but your effort is something you can if
you decide to go dad saying to you at
this point because usually like some
deep wisdom yeah and I think I think my
dad was just always like just get it
done
you know there's a there's an old Hawaii
saying that if I use news today always
can which is if can can if no can still
can always can right just like just do
it because I think at the other day of
my dad was just like find a way you know
that was always thinking find a way just
get it done find a way you're okay but
find a way you know and he was really
someone that was always telling me like
no matter what it doesn't matter if you
win or lose just don't quit don't stop
and it was something I really took to
heart and I think it's something I apply
now and I try to instill in my kids and
in anyone I work with is that whether
you're fighting whether you're fighting
a fire whether you're you know
deployment whether you're you know
police officer no matter what you're
doing even if you have the best of
intentions you've got to just keep
trying because sometimes you're gonna
win sometimes you lose sometimes you're
gonna save that person sometimes you're
not you know and that's something that I
think all of us need to understand is I
think we're so controlled by what's the
result
what's a result you lost and if winning
is the only way that you ed afire your
value and your worth you're gonna live a
really miserable life because we all
lose we all fail it's part of the
learning process you know people always
say either when you learn it's so true
so [__] true because if you don't
understand that then you just live your
whole life being dictated by getting you
no affirmation from those around you
from this or that from what you get
material things that you were able to
grab that's all that right and we start
to understand that it's about the effort
then you start to understand listen in
every one there's people in situations
that are in really crappy situations and
people that are going through really
miserable times and that's where the
brightest lights sometimes come from and
if you look at those people with the
brightest lights that come out why what
is different because they could very
easily want the other way it's usually
those had purpose and dictate that I'm
gonna get out they made a decision
they're doing it for their mother
they're doing it for their kid they're
doing for some reason and I think it's
something that we all find through our
journey our evolution of life you know I
mean early on if you talk to me in my
20s or maybe in your 20s
we're totally different people right
you're like I just want to crush it I
want to do this I'm gonna do that and
that's great but then you get to a point
where you realizing that really doesn't
matter as much as you know what it's all
said and done what have you done to make
things better or maybe don't give a [__]
okay then that's fine then those three
I'm just saying there's also two but I
tend to be one of the people that give a
[__] let's talk about first responders
new freeze how much of getting over that
is mental and how much of it is the
sequencing and the protocols to be
comfortable being uncomfortable they're
a different breed usually those that go
in there are just trying to help they
want Pete they're people that want to be
involved in that that community that
tribe and they love to you know help
people I'll just use firemen for example
and I think that the mental component
for them is is that mental fatigue right
that they run into mental health is a
major issue with first responders now
because I think one of the things that
goes into it is that guys going to
situation when you're please fire
military you can't am
I didn't do my best what the hell
happened I should have known better did
this and they second-guess themselves
and a lot of that is because they can't
control it you know our body is in a
fight-or-flight mechanism right so it
doesn't really give a [__] about hey go
in and save air but just like they're
gonna worry about me literally that's
what the body cares about like let's
keep you safe and alive and something
stings shut down right they can't see as
well they can't hear as well and for me
that's why I wanted to create that
system of something they can
consistently do that are gonna help them
move better and process things a lot
faster you know and that's just getting
them accustomed to moving in different
moving patters under duress how do you
create the duress and training a lot of
it is just the fatigue component of
getting them through different movements
and having them challenge that move it
because sometimes you know muscle
fatigue is one thing you know and you
get to a point where your lactic acids
that just a max threshold they just like
dude I can't move anymore
but I try to move things where they can
still move but it's very challenging
their heart rates up you know
it's uncomfortable they're hot so
they're their body's having to deal with
their body temp if we're there's like a
visual restrictions they can't see very
well
auditory restriction where we take away
some of their hearing maybe we cover one
year they have one ear out you just the
body happen to understand it because the
body's like what the hell I can only
hear to one ear now I can only see out
of one eye can't see the different
textural things and the body stresses
out so the adrenal system stresses out
because there's a sense of like what's
happening it's trying to figure out
what's happening so it's kind of a mix
in regards to first responders that's
how I like to to develop it because then
I feel that these guys are in there they
get more familiar with use I using their
equipment when they're under stress when
they're out of breath but we're not
putting him at any risk right because
these guys whether it be first
responders or anyone they're not trying
to be professional workout artists
they're just trying to utilize the
training to make them more proficient at
what they do and that's my job that's
why it's smashing and stuff like for me
I push myself but it's a lot of it is
you don't see me like lifting a million
pounds I just I'm not that rich guys
much stronger than me guys much faster
than me more conditioned than me
but I just for myself try to see if I
can push myself a little bit farther
beyond what I think I can do what I want
to quit because really that is something
that's going to apply to Phi
police military is that it's hot I'm
tired I can't get there but there's two
more people need to get saved do I just
give up you can't they gotta push past
that right push past what they believe
is possible but if they've done it in
training time in time whether that
fatigue did they learn that I just keep
pushing just keep moving
there's a crossover right if you look at
the the most expensive computers in the
world there aren't the biggest they are
the smallest they are the fastest
processing the processing speed is very
important and can you maintain that if I
take away you can only stand a one eye
here at a one-year you know and you can
only use one arm are you gonna freak out
because you've been restricted or you
just like I'm all right I can do this
you just keep moving and focus and
manage your breath and we have five
senses but we also have an ear and for
our census of you know perception and
vestibular right so our ability to kind
of find our balance and our regulation
is very important because I'm a final of
proprioception station a lot of the
balance you know when you run into a
balance you've seen protein you know
people to work on their perception on
maintaining balance but steeper they're
much more much more on your your inner
your like for example if you get vertigo
you know a transman perception is that
basically biofeedback it's being able to
read a lot of battling yeah because a
lot of that to use is your ability a lot
of people fight where's my balance come
from is it my hip mobility hip stability
ankles feet yes all of the above but
it's also your ability to control your
your Hartree control your mind and focus
right these are all elements of it that
I love to deconstruct you know the
movement patterns of individuals and
assess it and it's hard I know that
people are like hey what do I do it is
it's important but I think that's why
trying to build curriculum in a platform
where people can go and they do a their
own assessment and understand where they
are and their limitations are and not
only their physical restrictions but
sometimes life gets in the way I got
four kids or you know I'm working all
day long how am I gonna get this done
you've got to make it something that can
fit into their schedule and I try to Oh
think demystify it and it's over
complicated sometimes we just need to
learn how to move and understand how to
move in a proper way that's gonna help
us right if you want to take that to the
next level over talking about you know
sensory processing and sensory training
and first responder training or for pro
athletes
or for whoever we're dealing with it's a
much different right are people with
actual physical restrictions and
limitations and they just can't do it
there's things that you have to work
around but that all that always can
mentality is something that resonates
with me is there's always a way we
always find a way and I think when you
have that mindset that applies it every
aspect of your life and really that's
what it's about right it's great to be
great in the gym but if you're
weak-minded outside of the gym what does
that even apply to you
you're just strong in the gym you're
eight but that's not gonna carry over
that's creating your gym life if you're
in the gym one hour of the day what
about the other 23 hours of the day so I
like to find things that are gonna cross
over that we can apply to other aspects
of her life so talk to me about the
can-do mentality I know your son was hit
by a car
yeah and just shattered his leg yeah so
how have you guys one kept him positive
- built back from that like what's that
protocol look you know it's funny my son
is far far stronger than me at his age
he we were going across a crosswalk we
weighted link turned green we walked
across cars coming on the other side
speeding through didn't look it just
turned right into him I just ran him
over like right in front of me so it was
a gnarly process I mean it's been like
three years down fortunately he's
recovered from all his injuries but it
was it was hard because you know as a
dad I always wanted to protect my kids
from everything I'm not necessary shield
them but be someone that they can count
on that would always keep them safe and
I remember when he was hurt he looked
back at me as I hey Dad you said you
always protect me what happened he was
scared and dude it crushed me dude and
it was hard because I kidding at shadow
my works I always thought I'm strong
enough to protect my kids but realizing
that anything could happen at any time
life just happens you know a lot of
positive came out of it and he has a
very positive outlook on it and if you
ask him now he always says you know I
would never change it you know I was
like you got hit by a car guys I
wouldn't change it dad because so many
great things happen from it he met a lot
of different people
he saw the outreach of people it forced
him to kind of get out of his comfort
zone and really push you know sometimes
it's amazing being a dad you start to
look at you get a chance
to look at the development of these
amazing humans from a different
perspective
you know you love them so much but then
you also get to see how they develop and
it's fun you know you see the aspects
that they're stronger and you add the
areas that you can help support them in
but I think that that incident really
taught me that you just you have no
control of anything that you think you
do you know I was my whole thing is
protect fan-like like I can control it
and he can and I think that's the
unpredictability of life and that even
goes back into the functional training
component really like you know flipping
tires and hitting rope that's functional
I guess you know it's different
out-of-the-box training but functionals
can you operate in life
one thing I expect that things happen
can you manage yourself and I hope that
those small little victories that that
people get from finishing a workout or
getting these things or things that they
could apply to all their little parts of
their lives right because if it's just
working out I just feel like it's just
you're cutting yourself short what's
something that you taught him during
that process hmm interesting I think one
of the things I kind of taught him is to
believe that the pot you know the
impossible is possible so he was just
getting into you know sports for the
first time and he was excited kind of
making your friends and then this
happens and and I think he was like you
know I finally try and then this happens
you know it was kind of like from a
fourth-graders perspective I tried dad
and then this happens I mean what's the
use right I wish I could try again or
you know it's gonna be impossible I mean
like it's never gonna be the same as it
was before it's impossible and I think I
had to dig deep because there was that
fear that in my head I was like maybe
he's right you know maybe it's not do I
just do I just tell him that is and
maybe it's [__] my just [__] my
son trying what did you tell him I said
one day at a time I told him I think I
tried to manage his expectations I just
said let's just get a stronger let's
heal the bone first steal the bone so
you got a rest you got to take your you
know take yourself emit your nutrients
get the rest you need keep stretching do
that you know I kind of just keeping him
on specific tasks
and then one task the bone heals okay
now let's get the muscle stronger
okay muscles getting stronger let's work
mobility right and that's from a
physical perspective I think the hardest
thing was mentally trying to get him
past it you know how this thing called
mission 120 that I started he was
actually from him when he was much
younger like six or seven that he asked
me what a dad is anything more than a
hundred percent and I was like yeah
there's a 120 percent I was like you
know like when a sprinter is running
through the tape they don't stop at
hundred meters they run hundred twenty
meters for top speed you got to go pass
what you think is the finish line if you
really want to get your maximum effort
at you you know at the end he's like oh
that's interesting daddies do you do
that Dad that was like no I was thing
about of course team I was like oh yes
and of course not gonna but my hand was
like oh my god that was like reality
check right I was like damn so at that
point I kind of made it my mission to
always try to do more than I believed
was possible and I started to see so
many results from that but I think
getting in through it was something that
I just kept telling a listen just one at
a time you know
and it wasn't so much about stay
positive it's just like stay focused on
your task this is a goal there gonna be
days that you just feel like crap and
you don't want to do it it hurts a lot
and you have doubts and that's okay to
have those days and I think allowing him
to be okay with having those days I
think I found that it helped him more
than ever I said suck it up suck it up
just go right because inherently that's
us because I allowed him to kind of
express his frustrations does it tell me
how frustrated you feel you're scared
it's okay to be scared are you
frustrated you know tell me your anxiety
in regards of this and it's hard took a
while to get it out of them but I found
that once you get it out and that's the
whole thing all right I mean tell my
first responders and and all of us in
general we have so much of a mental
block that happens that we just don't
want to do because of fear or anxiety or
past failures or whatever the case is it
just stops us and I think rather than
saying screw that go push past it we all
hear that but that's that's a reality a
push past it but that all that crap that
was back there still sitting in that
room just building up I got closet you
just keep throwing boxes in there
eventually that the
it's gonna swing open all that craps
gonna come out and you're carrying all
that excess baggage so I'm just a friend
believes just have a line of
communication where I think I have that
with my boys and I it's much more just
hey let's talk about it and we can be
scared you can have anxiety it allows
people to come to grips with that
feeling and realize that they can rise
above it
if you just deny that feeling it just
doesn't make sense it works from a very
short period of time and even if you're
able to sustain that for say 10 years
there's gonna come a time in your life
where it just breaks down or it causes
other hang-ups because because you're
trying to fix this circuit this circuit
doesn't get it you know dis apply so it
applies to your relationships or other
aspects that you would not want you
don't understand why it's just a lot of
it's because this circuit needs to be
fixed so I think coming to terms with
all emotions is important driving them
down does it make sense to me you know
and so you know when you're talking to
apply the applications into fitness is
that you know being discouraged or you
know feeling very you know you don't
have lack of confidence you know you're
not self-confident you feel you feel
funny about how your body looks you
don't feel strong you feel weak or all
these different things rather than
saying you know screw it we do it anyway
yeah I can't there's elements of that
you have to push past it but if you
don't come to grips with that's okay you
feel that way but just do it anyway we
try it anyway seems to work better for
me in my my own personal relationships
and my kids and how we deal with with
clients at first responders it it's I
think they feel like you you give a [__]
too right yeah yeah what did he teach
you you know I think his resilience is
something that I always see every day
you know he has his own things that he
struggles with in his life but he always
tries to have an attitude of even if I'm
not in the greatest of moods then I'll
try I'll try right and that's all I ever
want is my son to just feel like I'll
try and if I can get that across to
anybody as just try
because you can control try right can't
control do all the times because maybe
it just doesn't work out but you can
control try and I think in my life as I
you know continue to do things and I've
been very blessed with a lot of
different things that are happening
there's always that anxiety of what if
what if this what if not just like
listen I'm just gonna do my best and try
and however things shake out in life and
however things shake out on projects
they do and we just moved from there and
I think that's something that I've
learned from him I consistently learned
from him is to have that attitude and I
think if we can all apply that attitude
then sometimes that the greatness is
right behind that I try wall right where
you're just like mask your that I could
do it but you're just like one step to
get to the other side and maybe you're
not maybe it's still 50 steps away but
at least you're one step closer to where
you were yesterday right so I think just
trying is important you know trying
leads to can and they can try to do so
I'll try then I can and I'll do what
what are your thoughts around the
pursuit of greatness like you have a
very relaxed demeanor in terms of you're
not trying to crush people you're not
like [__] suck it up yeah but yet
you've achieved some pretty
extraordinary things in your life your
clients have achieved extraordinary
things in their lives so you obviously
have some relation to the pursuit of
greatness like how do you think I'm you
know I think it's and with my training
many times you know when you hear me I
have like a raspy like kind of loud boy
somebody let's go let's go and don't get
me wrong I'm definitely someone who will
push you to the limit but I think as I
as I kind of see every time with
greatness
is that the pursuit of greatness you
have to have purpose if you don't have
purpose your own personal purpose for
doing it what is your reason for being
great or is there a purpose if you don't
know that yet you have to first get that
because you're gonna have a hard time
applying the two elements that are
required to get there which our
discipline is always required I think
everyone can do hard work
but can you do hard work day after date
can have a discipline even you don't
feel like it and a consistency can you
be consistent with that discipline to
achieve that but those two elements
without purpose mean nothing so the
pursuit of greatness I think is finding
your purpose and it's really what drives
you what wakes you up every day could be
your your significant other it could be
your kids it could be your job it could
be a vision or some a dream that you
have whatever it is you need to have it
like with fighters it's they have
grueling schedules but most of them
their purpose is they want to be a world
champ great if you want to be the best
and that's your purpose that every
aspect of your life needs to be aligned
with that ok because if it's not having
great talent is it's good but it's not
enough it's just not enough
you know I mean Jordan knows Michael
Jordan says all the time people look at
her go oh he's so talented but no one
worked hard on that guy Kobe same thing
you know he just his work ethic and his
discipline is consistency he just want
to be the greatest great your purpose is
to be the greatest basketball player
ever but you got those two elements to
kind of get you there so I think
deconstructing the elements the
ingredients of the recipe are important
people just want the end product to eat
it all this is good but what's in that
what's the ingredients that you need to
put it in there and people are like I'll
work my ass off good it's check box one
that's fine it's like I have eggs that
is a meteor make cake bro right can I
see so what are some of the other things
in in all the people that you've worked
with and what are some things you see in
common between the ones that really
achieved that level of greatness I think
one other aspect I've always talked
about discipline and consistency but I
think being humble in your training
because you being humble you're open to
feedback all right
I think being humble and feedback that's
in business that's in training you know
it's in sports and first you have to be
humble because there's always others to
have another perspective that you didn't
see they may have experiences that you
haven't gone through yet that they can
then give to you I mean if there's
someone that went through the maze
experience of building this amazing
company they're like hey Tom let me talk
to you and you said I don't need it that
makes no sense right listen let's listen
maybe there's an aspect maybe only take
one 1% of what they say but that 1% is
Diamond right so for me it's the same
way is that you'd be humble because
they're open to listening and and if you
have if you're humble in the journey
you're disciplining your tasks you
consistent with that discipline and you
have the purpose your friggin
unstoppable bro so you may may or may
not become the world champ of the best
of the best but I tell you what you'll
be the best that you could be mmm so
that's what I do just do my [__] best
every time that's you can walk away and
sleep well knowing I did my very best it
sucks that I didn't win sucks I don't
get the tasks done in of course every
loss hurts or every you know failure
hurts but it hurts a little bit less if
you understand that is just one one
battle on the full journey right so I
think you can have purpose in a specific
area in your vocation or your sport or
whatever you're doing but you have to
also I think fine-tune and find your end
goal what's your end game what's your
legacy game like when it's all said and
done do you really care you want to die
with the most money cool you want to be
most famous person cool or do you want
to affect as many people as possible
that's where I kind of slug them because
life becomes much more fulfilling right
cuz you're like you're doing this for a
friggin reason you're not just doing
this because you're for shits and
giggles you're actually you're making a
difference and there's nothing like that
it sounds corny [__] until you do it and
you feel it you're like wow yeah it's a
big deal when you talk about your kids
being your purpose and you wanting to
impact people how do you keep that
present in your day-to-day life when
it's getting [__] exhausting or do
you have a photo of your kids eat where
around your neck like is it the hundred
and twenty percent where it's like I
[__] told my son that this is real
and I'm gonna make it real like you've
made it very clear that purpose is
critical mmm that purpose is the thing
that will show for you in the dark
moments yes I don't think it will show
up on accident I think people have to
create a way we hold that thing in their
mind or to conjure it in their mind in
the dark moment I'm just wondering how
you do that for me it's I sometimes in
the dark moments I kind of lean back on
and I like I said have you always candid
the
she went to all these things but I think
it really comes down I try to simplified
as much as possible it's just at the end
of the day my kids my family are going
to watch what I do not what I say it's
what I do
so I can talk a big game and say it but
one of the time times with my clients
everything to talk about if I don't do
it it's all [__] it's all [__]
so be an example and it sounds corny but
at the end the day that's what it is is
I'm not trying to press anybody but at
the same time I got I got to do what I
say and I think it keeps me it keeps me
in line with what my goal is what my
purpose is and I feel the weight of that
and it's a good weight it's not a bad
way for me you know the good weight is
just get it done because one of the days
I don't feel like doing the discipline
component falls back into it and get it
done
do my best consistency do my best get it
done and I think the last thing about
being humble is in humble a journey is
also being willing to accept support and
accept from those around you that's one
of the hardest things people have right
because we're so used to especially from
an entrepreneurial perspective or people
that have done things on their own for a
long time the strongest people are like
I got this I don't need help but dude we
all need help you know and I think we
have to realize that when you realize
that you become so much more powerful
because not just you anymore it's now a
team around you and that's important I
think it's very important that those
components are all become you know
threads of your DNA and that's all we're
consistency over time does it happen
overnight but we're creatures of habit
if that becomes your habit it's much
easier to maintain it so where can
people learn more about you so I have
Instagram it's da underscore are you
okay to role but yeah if you were gonna
have people make one change that would
have the biggest impact on their health
what change would you have them make
I think it's really just not to
overcomplicate it and really just move
just get moving whether that's walking
whether that's incorporating some of my
training curriculum but don't let
yourself get intimidated by the
possibility of of getting in better
shape I think many times people are I
have gone down the journey and failed so
many times you're like I don't want to
try anymore right or they just it just
hurts too bad but just understanding
that just move don't over complicate it
get out walk because I think people look
at an exercise program they're like
screw that I don't have the time I'm too
heard too out of shape just move and I
think one one step leads to the second
so if we can just get more mobile start
moving around a little bit more then
you're more inclined okay let me do that
on a regular basis let me try to
increase its density and set it up but I
think all of us try to get exposed to
try this new workout try that new
workout and it's intimidating and we get
hurt and things happen if you don't feel
good about herself so I try to I try to
tell people just kind of going with an
open mind and you know just move and I'm
happy just to see people moving you know
I'm I'll be the biggest cheerleader for
everyone that can get that done so
that's awesome well guys I think that
moving is very good advice and anybody
that is helping to Train first
responders certainly gets my vote of
confidence I highly encourage you guys
to check out what he's doing it's really
cool and he's being very humble which I
said is one of the keys but truly he's
got some amazing stuff check out his
Instagram see what he's up to
I think it will help if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care
thank you guys so much for watching and
being a part of this community if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're gonna get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential